# Authentication

## Pre-requisites

Users looking to use the RCRAInfo API need to register and obtain the necessary permissions for the site they're looking to operate as. For infomation on regsitration and permission levels, see the chanpter on [registration](../Intro/registration.md).

## API Id and Keys

The system uses a combination of API Id and API key for user authentication and authorization. The API Id and key (credentials) are generated by the RCRAInfo/e-Manifest application. An API Id/key pair is unique to a user, however the same API Id/key pair is used for all EPA sites that the user has (Site Manager) access to.

[Site Managers](../Intro/registration.md#permission-levels) are the only permission level that can generate API credentials in RCRAInfo. API Id/key pairs do not expire, however, RCRAInfo application passwords (the password used to log into RCRAInfo through a browser) expire every 90 days. The Site Manager that owns the API Id/API key pair must properly maintain account. User can regenerator new API keys if their key is lost, is compromised, or need to be rotated. An API Id/key pair is terminated is the user account is deactivated or no longer has Site Manager level access for any EPA site.

## Security Tokens

All services (except Authenticate) require a security token which is passed in the header of the request. Users must utilize the [auth](#auth) service, which returns a security token which should be used in all subsequent calls. It is submitted in tehe HTTP header usering the Authorization key with a value of `Bearer` plus the provided security token.

For example, an HTTP requiest to the [federal-waste-codes]() endpoint would include...

```http
GET /api/v1/federal-waste-codes HTTP/1.1
Host: rcrainfo.epa.gov
Authorization: Bearer theSecurityTokenObtainedFromTheAuthEndpoint
Accept: application/json
...
```

### Expirations and Refreshing Tokens

Security tokens expire after 20 minutes.
